---
title: Building and installing the image
permalink: 2.0-Building-and-installing-the-image.html
sidebar: edison
product: Edison
---
* TOC
{:toc}
## Building the image

Change to the correct directory as instructed by the `make setup` script (see Setting up).

        cd /.../my_Edison_Workspace/test/out/linux64

        source poky/oe-init-build-env

Note: you need to source `oe-init-build-env` from every new konsole that you want to use to run bitbake.

        bitbake -k edison-image

Alternatively, from the same directory as `make setup`:

        make image

`make image` has the advantage that it will always clean and rebuild kernel and U-Boot.

{% include note.html content="If you are changing kernel or U-Boot configs this will be a necessary thing to do. But if you are just working on recipies that will appear on the rootfs, using `bitbake` directly will be quicker. Also `bitbake -k` will continue building as many recipies as possible when errors are encountered, which can be convenient during development." %}

The results of bitbake will be found in `out/current/build/tmp/deploy/images/edison/` which is what we will be using when installing manually to enable booting from SDHC or USB drive.

After `make image` has completed, in addition run the `postbuild.sh` script, which will create a complete image in `out/current/build/toFlash/` ready for flashing using `flashall` or `Flash Tool Lite`. It will also process the btrfs image and create a snapshot from that, see [Automatically building and installing a `btrfs` snapshot](6.2-Transferring-a-new-btrfs-image)

## Flashing the image

### Before you start
You need to connect the Edison Arduino using 2 USB cables and **the switch in the position** as in [Flashing only U-Boot](2.3-Building-and-flashing-U-boot.html#flashing-only-u-boot) step 1 - 3. 

### Flashall
Change to the directory holding the flash-able image `out/linux64/build/toFlash/` and run `flashall.sh`. Press the Edison Arduino RESET button when instructed to plug the cable:
```
./flashall.sh
```
Note 1: If you have not followed the instructions in [Avoiding Permissions Issues](1.1-Prerequisites-for-building.html#avoiding-permissions-issues), you will need to invoke `flashall.sh` as root (i.e. `sudo ./flashall.sh`)

Note 2: Many people have been reporting that the windows version `flashall.bat` is not working on Windows 10. Apparently these problems do not occur using `Flash Tool Lite`. 

### Flash Tool Lite
 1. Download `Flash Tool Lite` for your platform (Google to find them f.i. on github).
        note on ubuntu:  sudo apt-get install libusb-0.1-4 is required to run
 3. Start as root using `sudo platformflashtoollite`, then select the json file in the `out/linux64/build/toFlash/` directory.  {% include image.html file="flash1.png" alt="json file selection dialog" border="true" max-width="90%" %}
 4. Click the **Start to flash** button.  {% include image.html file="flash2.png" alt="Start to flash button" border="true" max-width="90%" %}
 5. Press the Edison Arduino **RESET** button. {% include image.html file="flash3.png" alt="RESET Edison Arduino" border="true" max-width="90%" %}
 6. Flashing goes in separate steps for U-Boot and Root FS. {% include image.html file="flash4.png" alt="Flashing" border="true" max-width="90%" %}
