---
title: Building and installing the kernel
permalink: 2.2-Building-and-installing-the-kernel.html
sidebar: edison
product: Edison
---
* TOC
{:toc}
### Building the kernel

See the section Building and installing the image.
Actually we are building 2 kernels `bzImage-edison.bin` and `bzImage-initramfs-edison.bin`

The kernel with the built-in `initramfs` is called `bzImage-initramfs-edison.bin` and is the one we will be using. The initramsfs is a cpio built into the kernel containg kernel modules that are needed to boot from SDHC. 

According the Sndy Shevchenko the kernel modules can not be built into the kernel:
> Basically either you need to use special initramfs / initrd where you have all necessary modules and you use pivot_root to switch rootfs, or you compile in all those modules. Since one bug(?) in the regulator framework when you built-in sdhci-pci it will prevent to WiFi be enumerated, you have to workaround it [1] like  

    echo 0000:00:01.3 > /sys/bus/pci/drivers/sdhci-pci/unbind  
    echo 0000:00:01.3 > /sys/bus/pci/drivers/sdhci-pci/bind  

[1] https://communities.intel.com/message/419376#419376

Instead we chose to use the initramfs. This has the additional advantage that is has a debugshell with `busybox` which will allow you to boot and investigate if your external image is not found or has problems.

### Installing the kernel


We will put this on the internal mmc partition `/dev/mmcblk0p9`.

Before you can copy the file there we need to format this partition. Don't worry, this will not disturb operation of your current image as it was previously used for OTA (over the air) updates, but that feature is no longer supported. 

While running the original Intel® provided firmware, create a FAT file system on device 0:9. (If you don't, and save files on the originally-available file system, they will not be visible from U-Boot.)

        mkfs.vfat -F32 -I /dev/mmcblk0p9

Reboot the Edison.

Mount the Edison's now-visible drive on the host computer (using the extra USB cable). Copy the just-built Linux image to the Edison drive:

        cp tmp/deploy/images/edison/bzImage-initramfs-edison.bin /<path-to-Edison-drive>/bzImage-initramfs

> Note: with the U-Boot environment we set `bzImage-initramfs` will boot the kernel for the SDHC and `bzImage-initramfs-usb` will boot the kernel for the USB.

Alternatively, on the edison (with the original firmware):

        mount /dev/mmcblk0p9 /mnt

(Or, if the Edison already runs the morty firmware, copy the file to /boot, don't forget to unmount and reboot after that).

        mount /dev/mmcblk0p9 /mnt

And if you have sshd running on the edison, from your host:

        scp tmp/deploy/images/edison/bzImage-initramfs-edison.bin root@edison:

Then on the Edison:

        mv bzImage-initramfs-edison.bin /mnt/bzImage-initramfs
        umount /mnt

Or all the above from KDE's Dolphin using the `path fish://root@edison`

### Booting the alternative kernels

If you do nothing the image on the eMMC is booted automatically.

There are 2 ways to boot the external image:
 1. Interrupt U-Boot.
    In the first 1 sec. press escape. Then type:

        run edsboot

    for booting the SDHC, or

        run usbboot
        
    for booting the USB.
 2. From a running system, reboot with a `bootarg` (this is being worked on see [issue 45](https://github.com/edison-fw/meta-intel-edison/issues/45))

        reboot sd

    for booting the SDHC, or

        reboot usb

    for booting the USB.