---
title: Building a Debian image
permalink: 2.6-Building-Debian.html
sidebar: edison
product: Edison
---
* TOC
{:toc}

# Debian
Currently Debian will only build correct for x86_64 builds. That means it will only build correctly if you checkout `gatesgarth` and not `master`. The reason is the `debian_1_create.sh` script misses to pick up all needed kernel modules. 

{% include warning.html content="This image is not intended to be used for IOT but rather to use Edison board as a small server (Jenkins, Gerrit, web server, ...). It should be easier to install these packages on Debian rather than on Yocto image. If you want to use Edison for IOT, stick to Yocto image!" %}

### Prerequisites
`sudo apt install debootstrap`

### Build and flash
Follow the usual steps to generate a yocto image.  
Then type: `make debian` to generate the Debian image. The make requires sudo to run. So you may be asked for your password.  
During the process, you will be also asked to create the root password for Edison root account. You will need this password to login on Edison Debian.  

You can type `make clean_debian` to delete the Debian image. It is required before calling `make debian` again.
### Installing
Use `out/linux64/build/toFlash/flashall.sh` to flash it or use Flash Tool Lite.

You can also choose to install the rootfs on the sd card or usb same as with the Yocto images.  

* The kernel can be found here `out/linux64/build/tmp/deploy/images/edison/`. Follow [Installing the kernel](2.2-Building-and-installing-the-kernel.html#building-the-kernel) to install it on the emmc. Don't forget to [update U-Boot and fixup the environment](2.3-Building-and-flashing-U-boot) if you haven't done that already.
* The Debian rootfs can be found here `out/linux64/build/toFlash/`. Follow [Installing the rootfs on a sd card](2.1-Building-and-installing-the-rootfs).

### Installing Debian as an alternate image
From the Debian image additionally we create a BTRFS snapshot. The snapshot is also located here `out/linux64/build/tmp/deploy/images/edison/` with the name `edison-image-edison.snapshot.7z`. You can install it in excatly the same way as when installing an alternate Yocto image, see [Automatically building and installing a btrfs snapshot](6.2-Transferring-a-new-btrfs-image.html#automatically-building-and-installing-a-btrfs-snapshot).

### Post install
Being a Debian system directly using the `root` account is not recommended. You can not ssh into the Edison as root, but you can login as root via the console using the password you gave during the build.

* You might want to create a user account: `adduser an_username`
* And the give that user sudo rights: `usermod -aG sudo an_username`

You might want to install applications from the Debian repositories manually. To make life easier:
* `sudo apt-get install aptitude`

### Optional optimizing of disk partitions for EMMC installations

You can increase root partition size and if you want, add swap partition:

|       Increase rootfs       | Swap partition on EMMC | Swap and additonal storage on sdcard 	|
|:---------------------------:|:-:	|:-:	|
| Remove the OTA partition and grow the rootfs partition  | Transform update partition as a swap partition | `parted /dev/mmcblk1`	|
| `parted /dev/mmcblk0 rm 9`  | `mkswap  /dev/mmcblk0p9` 	 | `(parted) p` <br> to print the partition available on your sdcard  	|
| `growpart /dev/mmcblk0 8`   | `resize2fs /dev/mmcblk0p8` | `(parted) rm x` <br> where x is the number of a partition, repeat until you have removed all partitions 	|
| `resize2fs /dev/mmcblk0p8`  |  `echo "/dev/mmcblk0p9 none swap sw 0 0" >> /etc/fstab` <br> mount swap partition at next reboot | `(parted) mkpart primary ext4 10 28000` <br> create a main partition of 28GB |
|    |   | `(parted) mkpart primary linux-swap 28000 100%` <br> create a swap partition from 28GB to the end (if you have a 32GB card, it will be 4GB) |
|   	|   	| `(parted) q` |
|   	|   	| `mkfs.ext4 /dev/mmcblk1p1` <br> format the main partition |
|   	|   	| `mkswap /dev/mmcblk1p2` <br> format the swap partition |
|   	|   	| `echo "/dev/mmcblk1p1 /media auto defaults 1 1" >> /etc/fstab` <br> mount main partition at startup at next reboot |
|   	|   	| `echo "/dev/mmcblk1p2 none swap sw 0 0" >> /etc/fstab` <br> mount swap partition at next reboot |

### Connecting the network

Connect to wifi as usual with  [connmanctl](4.2-networking)

### Recovery to Yocto
A [recovery](2.4-Recovery) may be needed

### Highlights
* Enjoy `sudo apt update` and `sudo apt install package` without needing to build them
* Growing/resizing rootfs partition is needed only once. So no need to redo it if you reflash the same board.
* Your home folder for your user account is not deleted when reflashing.

