---
title: Networking functions
permalink: 4.2-networking.html
sidebar: edison
product: Edison
---
* TOC
{:toc}

## connman

`connman` connects wifi and ethernet (SMSC9514 USB 4p+LAN hub) or ethernet-over-usb (gadget). 

You might need to `systemctl enable connman && systemctl start connman` once.

## Ethernet
SMSC LAN9514 4p usb/ethernet hub works without configuration. But you can turn it off with `connmanctl`.

```
connmanctl
disable ethernet  
```

##  Wifi
It may be soft blocked. To unblock use `connmanctl`.
```
connmanctl
enable wifi
agent on 
enable wifi
scan wifi
services
connect wifi_12345678_123......910_managed_psk
```
and enter your password

The following method to unblock works but I consider this obsolete:
```
root@edison:~# rfkill list

0: phy0: wlan
        Soft blocked: yes
        Hard blocked: no
    
root@edison:~# rfkill unblock 0
root@edison:~# rfkill list
0: phy0: wlan
        Soft blocked: no
        Hard blocked: no
```
To unblock wifi and bluetooth simultaneously:
```
    rfkill unblock all
```

## Wifi tethering
The current version of `connmanctl` take care of tethering without the use of `hostapd`. Therefore we removed `hostapd`. Instructions for enabling a wifi access point:
```
connmanctl
enable wifi
tether wifi on <ssid> <passphrase with at least 8 chars>
```
To quickly switch between Access Point and Wifi:
```
ap-mode-toggle start | stop | status | toggle
```
You must have manually setup a tether previously using `connmanctl`, the stored `ssid` and `passphrase` will be used.

##  Gadget
It may be powered off. To power on use `connmanctl`.
```
connmanctl
enable gadget
services
connect gadget_aabbccddeef1_usb
```
To make a shared network you need to configure the host computer. On KDE5 (Kubuntu 18.10) create a new connection using Plasma Network Manager:
{% include image.html file="net1.png" alt="Make a new network connection" border="true" max-width="90%" %}
Make this network active only on the shared network device:
{% include image.html file="net2.png" alt="Restrict to Edison only" border="true" max-width="90%" %}
Select shared with other computers:
{% include image.html file="net3.png" alt="Make the connection shared" border="true" max-width="90%" %}
Other network manager based desktops will require similar steps.
