---
title: I2C SPI HSU USB
permalink: 4.4-hsu-i2c-spi.html
sidebar: edison
product: Edison
---
* TOC
{:toc}

## I2C
The Edison has 2 i2c channels that we can use, i2c-1 and i2c-6. i2c-1 is used by the Edison Arduino board itself to control level shifters, multiplexers etc. i2c-6 is routed to the Arduino headers. i2c-6 pinmux are already set as needed. 

{% include note.html content="i2c-6 is enabled through U-Boot, see [ACPI](1.3-ACPI-or-not). You need to have i2c set in `ACPI_FEATURES` which will configure the pins associated to i2c-6 in the correct mode." %}

{% include warning.html content="For non-ACPI pin configuration checkout the branch sumo32 and follow the instructions there." %}

To test i2c you need to insert the module i2c-dev first:

    modprobe -i i2c-dev

To detect all i2c channels:

    i2cdetect -l
    #i2c-3   i2c             Synopsys DesignWare I2C adapter         I2C adapter
    #i2c-1   i2c             Synopsys DesignWare I2C adapter         I2C adapter
    #i2c-6   i2c             Synopsys DesignWare I2C adapter         I2C adapter
    #i2c-4   i2c             Synopsys DesignWare I2C adapter         I2C adapter
    #i2c-2   i2c             Synopsys DesignWare I2C adapter         I2C adapter
    #i2c-7   i2c             Synopsys DesignWare I2C adapter         I2C adapter
    #i2c-5   i2c             Synopsys DesignWare I2C adapter         I2C adapter

Show the devices detected on a channel:

    i2cdetect -y -r 1
    root@edison:~# i2cdetect -y -r 1
         0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  a  b  c  d  e  f
    00:          -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    10: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    20: UU UU UU UU -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    30: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    40: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    50: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    60: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    70: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --

i2c-1 works, the devices shown as UU are the multiplexers on the Arduino board.

    root@edison:~# i2cdetect -y -r 6
         0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  a  b  c  d  e  f
    00:          -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    10: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    20: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    30: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 39 -- -- -- -- -- --
    40: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    50: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    60: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    70: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --

i2c-6 is also working and shows a TSL2561 sensor at address 0x39.

## SPI
User-mode access to SPI devices via /dev/spidev5.1 works. It was tested with an RFM69 radio module attached to an Intel mini-breakout board; single-byte and burst transfers were performed in both directions at an SPI speed of 6 MHz.

## HSU
The high speed UART works, except that on the x86_64 (64b) image the HSU seems to be a bit slow to enable dma when receiving a character. The result is that above 500kb/s the FIFO will overflow sometimes and you will loose characters. When this happens the kernel will insert a \00 char at the beginning of the buffer.

{% include note.html content="For the ACPI enabled image the HSU is enabled through ACPI. You need to have either `uart_2w` or `uart_4w` set in `ACPI_FEATURES` which will configure the pins associated to HSU in the correct mode for either RX/TX or RX/TX/RTS/CTS mode. " %}

## GPIO
{% include note.html content="For the ACPI enabled image pins can be configured using `libgpiod`" %}

Commands included in `libgpiod` are `gpiodetect`, `gpiofind` `gpioget`, `gpioinfo`, `gpiomon`, `gpioset`.

For instance, to set TRI_STATE_ALL high:

    gpioset `gpiofind TRI_STATE_ALL`=1

## USB
With linux 4.20 USB works in dual role mode which means it can act either as a device or as a host. In addition it has OTG (On The Go), meaning it can detect the role depending on the type of cable and device at the other end of the cable. For the Edison Arduino the mode is determined by the position of [Switch 1](2.3-Building-and-flashing-U-boot.html#flashing-only-u-boot) as it has a standard Type A USB plug for host mode and a standard micro B USB plug for device mode.
The Edison Breakout board has a micro AB OTG connector to enable automatic selection of the mode.
### Host mode
You can use this mode to connect a USB ethernet dongle. Hubs based on smsc95xx (AKA LAN 9514) provide 4 USB ports and 1 10/100 Ethernet port and works out of the box, providing almost 100Mb/s. You can also connect USB sticks and ftdi based serial port dongles.
### Gadget (device) mode
In Gadget mode you can connect the Edison to your PC and the PC will detect a multi-function device. Current we have:  
#### 1. Ethernet over USB connection
See [Networking functions](4.2-networking.html#gadget)). The network connection has been verified to work with Linux hosts. More work may be needed with Windows based hosts. The speed of the network connection is expected to be in the order of 200Mb/s.

#### 2. Mass storage device.
The partition that is shared is the `boot` partition (/dev/mmcblk0p9)

#### 3. Serial port over USB.
To make this work, on the host: `echo 0x1d6b 0x0104 >/sys/bus/usb-serial/drivers/generic/new_id`, this creates a new /dev/USBx port.
On Edison put a tty on the newly created port `ttyGS0` with `/sbin/agetty -L 115200 ttyGS0 xterm-256color`.

#### 4. Sound source and sink over USB (uac2)
To make this work, on Edison:
  * To get pulse audio to work first create an ordinary user and add it to group `sudo`.
  * Give this user access to the sound devices `sudo setfacl -m u:ferry:rw /dev/snd/*` (for some reason pulseaudio should do this automatically, but doesn't).
  * Start pulseaudo as ordinary user `systemctl --user start pulseaudio`.

On host:
  * Configure the Multifunction Composite Gadget using `pav` selecting `Analog Stereo Duplex` or `Digital Stereo (IEC958) Output + Analog Stereo Input`
  * List source device 
```
pactl list sources | grep Name | grep Gadget
        Name: alsa_input.usb-USBArmory_USBArmory_Gadget_0123456789abcdef-03.iec958-stereo
```
  * List sink device
```
pactl list sinks | grep Name
        Name: alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1b.0.analog-stereo
```
  * Create a loopback device
```
pactl load-module module-loopback source=alsa_input.usb-USBArmory_USBArmory_Gadget_0123456789abcdef-03.iec958-stereo sink=alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1b.0.analog-stereo
```

Play a wav file on edison:
```
    paplay "clubbed to death - Matrix soundtrack.wav" 
```
The load for pulseaudio + paplay is ~ 24% out of 200% (devided over 2 CPU's.

Play a mp3 file on edison:
```
pactl list sinks | grep Name
        Name: alsa_output.pci-0000_00_11.0-platform-dwc3.0.auto.stereo-fallback
mpg123 -a alsa_output.pci-0000_00_11.0-platform-dwc3.0.auto.stereo-fallback clubbed-to-death-Matrix-soundtrack.mp3
```
The load for pulseaudio + mpg123 ~ 30% out of 200%. To make this work you need to install `mpg123` to your image, or build it using `bitbake mpg123` and install using `apt` see [Building the deb repository](5.0-Creating-a-deb-repository#building-the-deb-repository).

#### Script
The Gadget functions are created by the script `conf-gadget.sh` in a dedicated directory `GADGET_BASE_DIR` in `configfs`. Whenever the USB port goes into Gadget mode this script is called from the `udev` rule `gadget.rules`. The Gadget functions persist when going to Hode mode, so the directory in `configfs` is only written once. Script and rule are provided by recipe `gadget` in `meta-intel-bsp`.
