---
title: ACPI
permalink: 1.3-ACPI-or-not.html
sidebar: edison
product: Edison
---
* TOC
{:toc}
## ACPI or no-ACPI?
The factory supplied kernel allowed setting pinmuxes from user space through debugfs. The vanilla linux kernel does not allow this. Of course it is allowed to write a driver or modify platform code to make sure that it configures pinmuxes as required for your application.
### What are pinmuxes and why do I care?
A pinmux is like a switch that allows a certain CPU pin to have multiple functions. In linux pinmuxes are controlled from the pinctrl subsystem that can not be controlled from user space without a driver. Other aspects of a CPU pin are controlled from the gpio subsystem and can be controlled from user space. From the linux Documentation/driver-api/pinctl.rst:

> From a kernel point of view, however, these are different aspects of the hardware and shall be put into different subsystems:  
> * Registers (or fields within registers) that control electrical properties of the pin such as biasing and drive strength should be exposed through the pinctrl subsystem, as "pin configuration" settings.
> * Registers (or fields within registers) that control muxing of signals from various other HW blocks (e.g. I2C, MMC, or GPIO) onto pins should be exposed through the pinctrl subsystem, as mux functions.
> * Registers (or fields within registers) that control GPIO functionality such as setting a GPIO's output value, reading a GPIO's input value, or setting GPIO pin direction should be exposed through the GPIO subsystem, and if they also support interrupt capabilities, through the irqchip abstraction.

Information on pinmux modes can be found [Hardware Guide for the Intel® Edison Kit for Arduino*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/support/articles/000005583/boards-and-kits.html).

The Edison Arduino also has muxes on the PCB that are controlled by setting GPIO pins high or low as well as I2C GPIO expanders that provide additional GPIO's.

To access functions like the UART, I2C-6 and SPI bus the pinmux mode must be set by the kernel from the default function set by Edison firmware (GPIO) to the desired function through platform code which sets the desired mode permanently.

### And ACPI?
Ultimately this type of platform code should go into ACPI tables. ACPI tables are normally served by BIOS. However U-Boot can also do this. Further, additional ACPI tables can be loaded into the kernel at a later time. We can build an ACPI enabled version of U-Boot with tables describing the SoC and additional ACPI tables describing the Edison Arduino. The latter are installed into the initramfs and loaded through `configfs` right after boot and prior to switching the rootfs.

  * ACPI tables can be loaded at any time, it is not a requirement to put them into the initramfs. Putting them in initramfs and loading through `configfs` does load them as early as possible without resorting to a seperate initrd. Also, loading from `configfs` has the advantage that the tables can be unloaded/reloaded at run time.

Enabling the UART as a 2 wire (RX/TX), 4 wire (RX/TX/CTS/RTS) device as well as the SPI and I2C device are build options in meta-acpi. We set these options in meta-intel-edison-bsp/conf/machine/edison.conf. Currently we have:

    ACPI_TABLES ?= "arduino.asl spidev.asl"
    ACPI_FEATURES ?= "uart_2w spi"

`ACPI_TABLES` has the list of asl's compiled amd built into the initramfs and loaded at boot.  
`ACPI_FEATURES` sets the options used when compiling the asl. Currently supported are `uart_2w, uart_4w, i2c, spi`

In the future, additional ACPI tables can be added to meta-acpi.

The ACPI enabled U-Boot only has effect when the ACPI enabled kernel is also built and used. Note the following points:

 1. The kernel called non-acpi is a vanilla kernel and actually does have acpi. What we mean is that it is missing some additional patches that will allow it to work with the acpi enabled U-Boot.
 2. When you flash the generated image using `flashall` or `Flash Tool Lite` you will always have a matching `U-Boot` and kernel. 
 3. When you flash `U-Boot` manually or boot a kernel manually using `edsboot` or `usbboot` you can get combinations of acpi and non-acpi `U-Boot` and kernel. This will have the following effect:
 
 | U-Boot   | kernel   | boot result                                                             |
 |:---------|:---------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------|
 | non-acpi | non-acpi | boots, with i2c-6, uses SFI                                             |
 | non-acpi | acpi     | boots, no i2c-6, uses SFI                                               |
 | acpi     | non-acpi | boots only with 'acpi=off' on kernel command line, with i2c-6, uses SFI |
 | acpi     | acpi     | boots, with i2c-6, uses ACPI                                              |

**Notes**

* Both U-Boot and kernel need to be ACPI enabled for ACPI to work.
* An acpi kernel will run with non-acpi U-Boot. However without the patch that enables I2C-6.
* An non-acpi kernel (including the factory provided one) will hang when run with ACPI enabled U-Boot, unless you provide `acpi=off` on the kernel command line.

### Why ACPI and no-ACPI?
Some of the pinmuxes are protected by the SCU (System Controller Unit) and can currently not be changed using ACPI, in particular I2C bus 6. The non-acpi image has a patch to its kernel platform code that tells the SCU to change the pinmux. The acpi enabled image has a patch in U-Boot to do the same.

Currently we are working on fixing this for the ACPI case. The status of this work can be followed at the [Intel Edison Wiki](https://edison.internet-share.com/wiki/ACPI).

Work on providing non-acpi U-Boot patches will end with the release of U-Boot v2018.09 <u>1)</u>. Efforts will from then on be focussed on the acpi U-Boot. Eventually this may lead to new non-acpi kernels to be unsupported.

<u>1)</u> Work on non-acpi U-Boot is done mainly by Andy Shevshenko and can be tracked [here](https://github.com/andy-shev/u-boot/commits/edison)

### Enabling ACPI
In `meta-intel-edison/meta-intel-edison-distro/conf/distro/poky-edison.conf` add `acpi` to `DISTRO_FEATURES`.

Alternatively you can checkout `sumo64-acpi` which will build a x86_64 acpi enabled version.  
## ACPI tables
### Building
Sample ACPI tables are provided by the meta-acpi layer in the `recipes-bsp/acpi-tables/samples/edison/` folder. We have tables for defining gpio, i2c, ads7951 and spi through 2 tables: `arduino` and `spidev`.

'bitbake acpi-tables` builds the cpio and puts that in the deploy folder `out/current/build/tmp/deploy/images/edison/`

Note: currently bitbake does not pick up changes in the asl sources. During development you need to use 'bitbake -c cleansstate acpi-tables` followed by 'bitbake acpi-tables`. Also you need to use `make image` for the newly built tables to get actually included into the initramfs.  
### Configuring
In `meta-intel-edison-bsp/conf/machine/edison.conf` we have

    ACPI_TABLES ?= "arduino.asl spidev.asl"
    ACPI_FEATURES ?= "uart_2w i2c spi"

`ACPI_TABLES` define which tables to build and include into the cpio, apci-tables.deb and initramfs.
`ACPI_FEATURES` defines options you can turn on during the build, these are translated to the appropriate defines. Choices are:

|Option     |Description                                  |
|---        |---	                                  |
|uart_2w    |Conffigures RxD and TxD for the HSU          |
|uart_4w    |Configures RxD, TxD, RTS and CTS for the HSU |
|i2c        |Configures SCL and SDA for the I2c-6         |
|spi        |Configures pins for SPI                      |

### Loading the ACPI tables
#### Preloading by U-Boot
You can pre-load the `acpi-tables.cpio` in the following way:
    setenv boot_edsboot 'zboot 0x100000 0 0x3000000 0x1000000'
    setenv bootargs_edsboot 'console=tty1 console=ttyS2,115200n8 rootfstype=ramfs rw'
    setenv bootcmd_edsboot 'setenv bootargs ${bootargs_edsboot}; run load_edsboot; run boot_edsboot'
    setenv load_edsboot 'load mmc 0:9 0x100000 vmlinuz.efi; load mmc 0:9 0x3000000 acpi-tables.cpio'
{% include note.html content="The acpi-tables.cpio must be an uncompressed cpio." %}
{% include note.html content="If you you need multiple cpios (to hold an initramfs), the first one must be the `acpi-tables.cpio`. You can concatenate multiple compressed cpio's to that one. See the kernel `Documentation/acpi/ssdt-overlays.txt`." %}
{% include note.html content="If the kernel has a built-in initramfs the U-Boot loaded `acpi-tables.cpio` will be used first." %}
{% include note.html content="If you get boot errors showing similar like 'garbage in uncompressed archive' probably the kernel is overwriting your cpio and you need to select a higher address." %}
#### Run time loading through configfs
Configfs allows to allow to load ssdt tables from user space, see kernel `Documentation/acpi/ssdt-overlays.txt`. This is done on edison automatically by incorporating the tables into the initramfs and loading them into the kernel as early as possible.

### Debugging
In theory acpi tables loaded through configfs can also be unloaded by using:

    rmdir /sys/kernel/config/acpi/table/arduino
    rmdir /sys/kernel/config/acpi/table/spidev

Currently this is generating a kernel crash.

To facilitate debugging there is a kernel command line option `skiptables` that causes loading on the acpi tables inside the initramfs to be skipped. This allows a quicker debug cycle. Add the option for instance to the `acpi` environment variable:

    fw_setenv acpi 'quiet skiptables'

After building `acpi-tables.deb` (see above), install it on the image manually using `dpkg -i acpi-tables.deb`. Alternatively copy the tables to `/kernel/firmware/acpi/` manually.

`acpi-tables.deb` installs acpi-tables-load which can be manually used to load the table.

{% include note.html content="If you prefer loading the acpi tables automatically, but want to be able to change them without rebuilding the kernel, systemd can load them using systemctl enable acpi-tables-load` once." %}

