---
title: Creating a DEB repository
permalink: 5.0-Creating-a-deb-repository.html
sidebar: edison
product: Edison
---
* TOC
{:toc}
## Setting up for signed DEB repositories
Currently Yocto does not support signed DEB repositories. However, since Gatesgarth `apt` (1.8.2) has become more strict and doesn't allow unsigned repositories by default. It appears overriding this behavior in `apt` is more work then to enable signed DEB repositories.

With the patch "package_manager: deb: Add support for signed feeds" applied during `setup`, Poky is patched to allow signed DEB repositories.

To enable, to following is added to local.conf during `setup`:
```
PACKAGE_CLASSES += " package_deb sign_package_feed"
PACKAGE_FEED_GPG_NAME = "976A9A3F994268DB"
PACKAGE_FEED_GPG_PASSPHRASE_FILE="${top_repo_dir}/utils/key/passphrase"
```
This enables signing the repo with the supplied GPG key (found under `utils/key/`). The key itself is installed during `setup` using:
```
gpg --import meta-intel-edison_pub.gpg
gpg --allow-secret-key-import --passphrase-file passphrase --batch --import meta-intel-edison_secret.gpg
```
{% include warning.html content="Because we included the private key in the layer and published it on Github, you must consider it as unsafe. That means anybody could have created a virus invested DEB repo and trick you into installing packages from there. If you believe that is impossible, for instance because you own the host serving the repo and the host is on your local network same as your Edison, then continue to **Building the deb repository**. In all other cases, generate your own key." %}

## Generating you own GPG key
If you need to provide your own key:
```
gpg --generate-key  # note the generated key, f.i. 976A9A3F994268DB and passphrase
```
and put your passphrase in the file named `passphrase`.
```
gpg --output meta-intel-edison_pub.gpg --armor --export 976A9A3F994268DB
gpg --output meta-intel-edison_secret.gpg --armor --export-secret-key 976A9A3F994268DB
```

If you don't want to create a signed repo remove `sign_package_feed` from `PACKAGE_CLASSES` in your `local.conf` (found under `out/linux64/build/conf`)

## Extending an expired key

> Thanks to [@lukedais](https://github.com/edison-fw/meta-intel-edison/issues/152#issuecomment-1732816511): You can extend the expiry date by running the following:

```
gpg --edit-key E78D3359A86650AE
key 1
expire
desired extension
```
> You may need to repeat this exact process for the subkey. 

## Building the DEB repository

For more information, see the [Yocto Mega Manual](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/4.0.7/singleindex.html#using-runtime-package-management)

First on the server generate the repository files and start a web server:
```
bitbake package-index
cd /home/ferry/tmp/edison-intel/my/edison-morty/out/linux64/build/tmp/deploy/deb/
python3 -m http.server

```
## Using the DEB repository
First `scp meta-intel-edison_pub.gpg edison:` the public key to Edison.

{% include warning.html content="Installing the key by using `apt-key`apt-key add meta-intel-edison_pub.gpg` is deprecated and
will no longer work, see the DEPRECATION section in apt-key(8) for details. Please use the new method below." %}

On the Edison, install the key, add the server to the `apt` sources, update the `apt` database and upgrade all packages that are newer then the installed versions:
```
gpg --dearmor meta-intel-edison_pub.gpg
mkdir /etc/apt/keyrings
mv meta-intel-edison_pub.gpg.gpg /etc/apt/keyrings/meta-intel-edison.gpg

vi /etc/apt/sources.list.d/meta-intel-edison.sources

X-Repolib-Name: meta-intel-edison
Enabled: yes
Types: deb
URIs: http://delfion:8000/
Suites: all/ corei7-64/ edison/
Signed-By: /etc/apt/keyrings/meta-intel-edison.gpg

(save and close, i.e. shift-ZZ)

apt-get update
apt-get upgrade
```
with `delfion` the name of the host.

The Edison image must have `gnupg` (for keyhandling) and `diffutils` installed (as `cmp` from Busybox throws an error).
