---
title: News
permalink: 0.6-News.html
sidebar: edison
product: Edison
---
## What's new for this release
 1. Linux upgrade to 5.6.0 and U-Boot to v2020.04  
    We have now switched to upstream U-Boot while just applying a few not required patched.
    Thanks Andy for all the hard work you put into this!
 2. Update to Yocto Zeus.
 3. We now build an image ext4 image that will boot directly off the sd card.
 4. Dropped support for booting from usb. This required manual step any way, so if you 
    want this add variables to edison.env as you please.
 5. Increased space on the emmc to accommodate a larger kernel.
 6. Separated initramfs as initrd from kernel as U-Boot refuses to boot kernels larger than 15MB.
 7. Added btrfs support to U-Boot and kernel
 8. Added`btrfs-tools` and `parted` and friends to initrd as well as other disk tools to initrd.
    This allows us to boot initrd as rescue image (using `run do_rescue`) to repair images offline.
 9. Enabled SOF (Sound Open Firmware) which enables the sound dsp, after you add a codec and enable it via acpi. 
 10. If you want to play `wav` or `mp3` without a codec, the UAC2 gadget has been enabled to play via your linux host connected via USB (see [Gadget (device) mode](4.4-hsu-i2c-spi#4-sound-source-and-sink-over-usb-uac2).
 11. Added support to [switch the file system entirely to btrfs](6.1-How-to-switch-to-btrfs#automatic-conversion) so emmc space is more efficiently used [as well as other advantages](6.4-Installing-an-updated-U-Boot).
 12. Add support to [add/remove/upgrade a second kernel](6.3-Installing-an-alternate-kernel) over the air. This allows easy experimenting with rc kernels, and updating Edison remote without a physical (usb) connection.
 13. Add support to add a [second image over the air](6.2-Transferring-a-new-btrfs-image). This allows easy experimenting with new images, and updating Edison remote without a physical (usb) connection. The process of adding a second image is faster than the `flashall.sh` of USB and doesn't touch the existing image.
 14. Add support to update [U-Boot and the U-Boot environment](6.4-Installing-an-updated-U-Boot) over the air.